JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our series
of conversations focusing on the
road ahead for the Democratic
Party.
Today, Senate and House
Democratic leaders
left Washington for a
stop in Berryville in
Northwest Virginia, estimated
population around 4,300.
It was to roll out a new,
more populist message
focusing on economic issues.
They said it's what the party
needs to win back voters.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: When you lose elections,
as we did in 2014 and
2016, you don't flinch.
You don't blink.
You look in the mirror and
ask, what did we do wrong?
The number one thing we did
wrong is not present a strong,
bold economic agenda to working
Americans, so that their
hope for the future
might return again.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), House
Minority Leader: That is why,
today, Democrats are unveiling
an aggressive and ambitious
economic agenda, and a bold new
promise to America's working
families.
From the heartland -- these
members are from the heartland,
but to the suburbs, to the
cities, Democrats are offering
a better deal, better jobs,
better wages, a better future.
REP.
BEN RAY LUJAN (D), New
Mexico: Voters, constituents
want us to focus on them.
They want us to
understand where they are.
And they want us to understand
that their wages are not
keeping up with their cost of
living.
And so the more people that are
able to have that conversation
with the American people,
we will be in a
stronger place in 2018.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Joining me now
to discuss the new agenda, and
the way forward for the party,
is the chairman of the
Democratic National
Committee, Tom Perez.
Welcome to the "NewsHour."
So, how did the Democratic Party
get to the point where you have
to be reintroducing yourselves
to the American people, telling
them what you stand for?
THOMAS PEREZ, Chairman,
Democratic National
Committee: Well, we have
heard across America
from people that they don't
know what we stand for.
And I have been traveling
to countries listening.
And so what Leader Pelosi,
Senator Schumer and others
today have been doing is telling
people not only what
we're fighting for, but
who we're fighting for.
We're fighting for a
better future for everyone.
We're fighting to address
the most important
issue of our time, which
is income inequality.
We're fighting and showing
people that we believe that
everyone has an opportunity,
or should have an opportunity,
to punch their ticket to the
middle class, that health care
is a right for all, not
a privilege for a few.
And, again, we're not
only talking about what
we're fighting for,
but who we're fighting
for.
We're fighting for
the many, not the few.
We're fighting for an economy
that works for everyone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is this
different, Tom Perez, from the
Democrats' message before now?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, I think
-- I worked for Ted Kennedy.
And Ted Kennedy always fought
for he called the common
man and the common woman.
And I think the Democratic
Party, we have always been
fighting for ordinary Americans,
whether it was fighting for
the Social Security Act in the
1930s, fighting for Medicare and
Medicaid.
And we will be celebrating
the anniversary of Medicaid
and Medicare in a few days.
Fighting for the
Affordable Care Act.
Fighting for good jobs.
And what we need to do is
underscore what we have been
doing and tell people how we're
going to continue that fight,
because Donald Trump attempted
to hijack that message.
And we need to tell people
exactly who's fighting for them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, is part
of the reason you need to do
this that the party has been
spending -- and Democrats
-- have been spending so
much time talking about
Donald Trump, criticizing
Donald Trump?
Just today, I got another press
release from the Democratic
National Committee about Jared
Kushner's meeting with Senate
investigators on Russia.
Have you have been -- by you, I
mean Democrats - - been spending
too much time criticizing
Donald Trump, in other words,
talking about what you're
against, rather than what you're
for?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, when we
have a vote on the Affordable
Care Act repeal tomorrow, it's
important for us to talk about
the fact that that's not a
health care bill, it's a massive
tax cut for wealthy people.
But your point is absolutely
well taken, which is we can't
simply be against Donald Trump.
We have to be for the values
that Senator Schumer, Leader
Pelosi and all of us have
been talking about.
And that's what I do
day in and day out.
Democrats believe that no
one who works a full-time job
should have to live in poverty.
Democrats believe that, again,
health care is a right for
all and not a privilege for
a few, that the secretary
of education ought to
believe in public education.
And when I was labor secretary,
I was fighting for higher
wages, overtime pay for people.
I was fighting for retirement
security for folks.
We were fighting to make
sure that people had
the skills to compete.
And the Republicans were
always fighting against that.
They didn't want to raise
the overtime threshold.
They fought our efforts at
making sure that anyone who had
a 401(k) or an IRA could get
the advice they need.
And what we have to do a better
job of as Democrats is tell
folks exactly what we have
been fighting for and what they
have been fighting against.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How does this
fit into the debate that I
have been hearing out there?
On the one hand, you hear
I guess you would call them
centrist Democrats saying, well,
the party didn't pay enough
attention to the Middle America,
working-class Americans, it
spent too much time on what
they call identity politics.
And then, on the other hand, you
have got the more progressive
wing of the party saying,
no, no, the party forgot about
its base, it about minorities,
about black voters, about
Hispanic voters.
And you're hearing two
different critiques.
How does what you're saying
the party is arguing now, how
does it fit into that argument?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, I think it's
a false choice to suggest that
you either do one or the other.
And as Dr. King said, the best
civil right is a good job.
What good is a seat at
the counter if you can't
afford to buy a hamburger?
And economic opportunity
for everyone is what we
have been talking about.
And what we have to do a
better job of as Democrats is
talk about that in every zip
code.
A big part of what we're doing
with the Democratic Party is
we're building a 12-month-a-year
organizing presence
in every zip code.
We have to talk to folks in
rural America, urban America,
suburban America, because the
opioid epidemic is touching
all of those communities.
And we need to tell them that
we are the party that's trying
to make sure that we retain
access to health care.
We're the party that's making
sure that you have the skills
to compete, not only for today's
jobs, but for the dynamic
economy and the jobs that
will be coming tomorrow.
That's what Democrats have
been fighting for, and I think
that message resonates in every
zip code across the country.
Everyone wants good
public education.
Doesn't matter where you live.
And that's what
we're fighting for.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Former President
Obama himself said that he was
partly to blame for the fact
that the party didn't so as much
as it should have done, could
have been doing at the state
level, at the local level.
Is the party now going
to be working actively to
recruit and be more present
in local communities,
in cities?
THOMAS PEREZ: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
We have changed our
mission statement.
Our mission is no longer
simply to elect the president
of the United States.
Our mission is to elect
Democrats up and down the
ticket, from the school
board to the Senate.
And our mission is to be
there in every zip code.
That's why we helped two
candidates who were running in
Oklahoma a couple weeks ago who
won special elections
in districts that
Donald Trump had won.
We have a
57-state-and-territory strategy.
And we have to
organize everywhere.
And we to have to be a
12-month-a-year party.
You can't just show up
every fourth October and
call that organizing.
We have to organize everywhere.
And that's everywhere
every year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to
come back to the question we
were discussing a minute ago.
And that is, how much of
what people are hearing
from Democrats now
is anti-Donald Trump?
How do you both do this,
the positive things
you're talking about, and
remain this relentless
anti-Trump machine that many
people think the Democrats are?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well,
we can't match Trump
tweet for tweet, because
distracting Donald frequently
out there.
I'm sure, at the G20,
everyone was talking about
John Podesta's tweets.
And so when you -- and then
you have this misnamed voter
integrity commission, which
is a voter suppression
commission.
And we can't allow all of
the relentless conflict
and chaos that emanates
from this administration
to take our eye off the ball.
That's what today was
about with Leader Pelosi
and Senator Schumer.
It was about telling the
American people we are the party
that's fighting for a better
future for folks, for everyone.
We're the party that's going
to make sure that you get that
good job that pays a decent
wage that allows
you to have dignity.
And we have to do that.
And that's exactly what I do
everywhere I go, Judy, because
it is so important to tell
people what we stand for
and who we stand with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tom Perez, the
chairman of the Democratic
Party, thank you very much.
THOMAS PEREZ: Pleasure
to be with you.